# HMK2

## 

# GEOL590 Homework 02

### Question 1

*What were the main issues in the Reinhard and Rogoff issue, and how
best could they have been avoided?*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The main problems in the Reinhard and Rogoff issue were that there were
flaws in their data analysis. While running their analysis, they left
out two major pieces of data that ended up skewing their results, which
was revealed after Herndon, Ash, and Pollin ran a replicate of the
results. The research covered government debt load, a hot button topic,
and was used as ammunition in political speeches. These issues could
have best been avoided by checking the data more thoroughly before
sharing it with the public. Additionally, Reinhard and Rogoff
acknowledged the issue and explained that their data was a work in
progress and had updates available. As the article points out, it is
essential to acknowledge the accuracy of analyses, especially when the
data concerns a politically charged topic.

### Question 2

*What key attributes make a piece of data analysis “reproducible”?
Please put those attributes in a prioritized list.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One key attribute that makes a piece of data analysis “reproducible” is
making all the data and computer code publicly available starting at an
early stage (like when it is submitted for review). This can allow peers
to catch errors that were overlooked early on. Another attribute of
reproducible data analysis is replication of experiments and studies to
ensure the results are consistent. It is also essential to maintain an
organized workflow and record every detail, including experimental
design, procedures, equipment, raw results, data processing, statistical
methods, and other tools used. Finally, to prevent the spread of poor
data analysis, question data that looks “impressive,” or too good to be
true.

### Question 3

*Imagine that you are doing a piece of data analysis that only you will
ever see: perhaps you are shopping for a car and trying to determine
what will give you the best value for your money. Should you think about
making your data analysis reproducible? Why or Why not?*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes, I think it would be a good idea to make this type of data analysis
reproducible. The collected data and its analysis could serve as a
useful tool for other consumers who are trying to find a car for a the
best value. Not only could your reproducible data analysis serve as a
helpful tool for other people in the market for a new car, but others
could contribute information to the analysis that may yield even better
results.

**Attributes of reproducible data analysis (prioritized from most to
least important)**

1.  Replication of experiments and studies

2.  Record every detail of work including experimental design,
procedures, equipment, raw results, data processing, statistical methods
and other tools. In this case, record workflow, hardware and software
configuration, and source code.

3.  Make all the data and computer code publicly available at an early
stage -- preferably when the research paper documenting the study is
submitted for review.

4.  Question impressive looking data.
